The priests agreed that they would not collect any more money from the people and that they would not repair the temple themselves.
Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in its lid. He placed it beside the altar, on the right side as one enters the temple of the Lord. The priests who guarded the entrance put into the chest all the money that was brought to the temple of the Lord.
Whenever they saw that there was a large amount of money in the chest, the royal secretary and the high priest came, counted the money that had been brought into the temple of the Lord and put it into bags.
When the amount had been determined, they gave the money to the men appointed to supervise the work on the temple. With it they paid those who worked on the temple of the Lord—the carpenters and builders,
The money brought into the temple was not spent for making silver basins, wick trimmers, sprinkling bowls, trumpets or any other articles of gold or silver for the temple of the Lord;
They did not require an accounting from those to whom they gave the money to pay the workers, because they acted with complete honesty.
The money from the guilt offerings and sin offerings was not brought into the temple of the Lord; it belonged to the priests.
Menahem exacted this money from Israel. Every wealthy person had to contribute fifty shekels of silver to be given to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria withdrew and stayed in the land no longer.
“Go up to Hilkiah the high priest and have him get ready the money that has been brought into the temple of the Lord, which the doorkeepers have collected from the people.
But they need not account for the money entrusted to them, because they are honest in their dealings.”
Then Shaphan the secretary went to the king and reported to him: “Your officials have paid out the money that was in the temple of the Lord and have entrusted it to the workers and supervisors at the temple.”
He called together the priests and Levites and said to them, “Go to the towns of Judah and collect the money due annually from all Israel, to repair the temple of your God. Do it now.” But the Levites did not act at once.
Whenever the chest was brought in by the Levites to the king’s officials and they saw that there was a large amount of money, the royal secretary and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest and carry it back to its place. They did this regularly and collected a great amount of money.
When they had finished, they brought the rest of the money to the king and Jehoiada, and with it were made articles for the Lord’s temple: articles for the service and for the burnt offerings, and also dishes and other objects of gold and silver. As long as Jehoiada lived, burnt offerings were presented continually in the temple of the Lord.
They went to Hilkiah the high priest and gave him the money that had been brought into the temple of God, which the Levites who were the gatekeepers had collected from the people of Manasseh, Ephraim and the entire remnant of Israel and from all the people of Judah and Benjamin and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
They also gave money to the carpenters and builders to purchase dressed stone, and timber for joists and beams for the buildings that the kings of Judah had allowed to fall into ruin.
[ The Book of the Law Found ] While they were bringing out the money that had been taken into the temple of the Lord, Hilkiah the priest found the Book of the Law of the Lord that had been given through Moses.
They have paid out the money that was in the temple of the Lord and have entrusted it to the supervisors and workers.”
[ Rebuilding the Temple ] Then they gave money to the masons and carpenters, and gave food and drink and olive oil to the people of Sidon and Tyre, so that they would bring cedar logs by sea from Lebanon to Joppa, as authorized by Cyrus king of Persia.
With this money be sure to buy bulls, rams and male lambs, together with their grain offerings and drink offerings, and sacrifice them on the altar of the temple of your God in Jerusalem.
Still others were saying, “We have had to borrow money to pay the king’s tax on our fields and vineyards.
I and my brothers and my men are also lending the people money and grain. But let us stop charging interest!
Give back to them immediately their fields, vineyards, olive groves and houses, and also the interest you are charging them—one percent of the money, grain, new wine and olive oil.”
“Keep the money,” the king said to Haman, “and do with the people as you please.”
Mordecai told him everything that had happened to him, including the exact amount of money Haman had promised to pay into the royal treasury for the destruction of the Jews.
For the generations to come every male among you who is eight days old must be circumcised, including those born in your household or bought with money from a foreigner—those who are not your offspring.
Whether born in your household or bought with your money, they must be circumcised. My covenant in your flesh is to be an everlasting covenant.
On that very day Abraham took his son Ishmael and all those born in his household or bought with his money, every male in his household, and circumcised them, as God told him.
As they were emptying their sacks, there in each man’s sack was his pouch of silver! When they and their father saw the money pouches, they were frightened.
Joseph collected all the money that was to be found in Egypt and Canaan in payment for the grain they were buying, and he brought it to Pharaoh’s palace.
When the money of the people of Egypt and Canaan was gone, all Egypt came to Joseph and said, “Give us food. Why should we die before your eyes? Our money is all gone.”
“Then bring your livestock,” said Joseph. “I will sell you food in exchange for your livestock, since your money is gone.”
When that year was over, they came to him the following year and said, “We cannot hide from our lord the fact that since our money is gone and our livestock belongs to you, there is nothing left for our lord except our bodies and our land.
If he does not provide her with these three things, she is to go free, without any payment of money.
“If anyone’s bull injures someone else’s bull and it dies, the two parties are to sell the live one and divide both the money and the dead animal equally.
But if the owner is with the animal, the borrower will not have to pay. If the animal was hired, the money paid for the hire covers the loss.
“If you lend money to one of my people among you who is needy, do not treat it like a business deal; charge no interest.
[ Atonement Money ] Then the Lord said to Moses,
Receive the atonement money from the Israelites and use it for the service of the tent of meeting. It will be a memorial for the Israelites before the Lord, making atonement for your lives.”
But if a priest buys a slave with money, or if slaves are born in his household, they may eat his food.
You must not lend them money at interest or sell them food at a profit.
Give the money for the redemption of the additional Israelites to Aaron and his sons.”
So Moses collected the redemption money from those who exceeded the number redeemed by the Levites.
Moses gave the redemption money to Aaron and his sons, as he was commanded by the word of the Lord.
He is to share equally in their benefits, even though he has received money from the sale of family possessions.
Do not charge a fellow Israelite interest, whether on money or food or anything else that may earn interest.
But Elisha said to him, “Was not my spirit with you when the man got down from his chariot to meet you? Is this the time to take money or to accept clothes—or olive groves and vineyards, or flocks and herds, or male and female slaves?
Joash said to the priests, “Collect all the money that is brought as sacred offerings to the temple of the Lord—the money collected in the census, the money received from personal vows and the money brought voluntarily to the temple.
Let every priest receive the money from one of the treasurers, then use it to repair whatever damage is found in the temple.”
Therefore King Joash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and asked them, “Why aren’t you repairing the damage done to the temple? Take no more money from your treasurers, but hand it over for repairing the temple.”
who lends money to the poor without interest; who does not accept a bribe against the innocent. Whoever does these things will never be shaken.
He took his purse filled with money and will not be home till full moon.”
Dishonest money dwindles away, but whoever gathers money little by little makes it grow.
Why should fools have money in hand to buy wisdom, when they are not able to understand it?
Whoever loves money never has enough; whoever loves wealth is never satisfied with their income. This too is meaningless.
Wisdom is a shelter as money is a shelter, but the advantage of knowledge is this: Wisdom preserves those who have it.
A feast is made for laughter, wine makes life merry, and money is the answer for everything.
For this is what the Lord says: “You were sold for nothing, and without money you will be redeemed.”
[ Invitation to the Thirsty ] “Come, all you who are thirsty, come to the waters; and you who have no money, come, buy and eat! Come, buy wine and milk without money and without cost.
Why spend money on what is not bread, and your labor on what does not satisfy? Listen, listen to me, and eat what is good, and you will delight in the richest of fare.
Her leaders judge for a bribe, her priests teach for a price, and her prophets tell fortunes for money. Yet they look for the Lord’s support and say, “Is not the Lord among us? No disaster will come upon us.”
“No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.
Don’t I have the right to do what I want with my own money? Or are you envious because I am generous?’
[ Jesus at the Temple ] Jesus entered the temple courts and drove out all who were buying and selling there. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves.
The man who had received five bags of gold went at once and put his money to work and gained five bags more.
But the man who had received one bag went off, dug a hole in the ground and hid his master’s money.
Well then, you should have put my money on deposit with the bankers, so that when I returned I would have received it back with interest.
“This perfume could have been sold at a high price and the money given to the poor.”
So Judas threw the money into the temple and left. Then he went away and hanged himself.
The chief priests picked up the coins and said, “It is against the law to put this into the treasury, since it is blood money.”
So they decided to use the money to buy the potter’s field as a burial place for foreigners.
When the chief priests had met with the elders and devised a plan, they gave the soldiers a large sum of money,
So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed. And this story has been widely circulated among the Jews to this very day.
These were his instructions: “Take nothing for the journey except a staff—no bread, no bag, no money in your belts.
On reaching Jerusalem, Jesus entered the temple courts and began driving out those who were buying and selling there. He overturned the tables of the money changers and the benches of those selling doves,
[ The Widow’s Offering ] Jesus sat down opposite the place where the offerings were put and watched the crowd putting their money into the temple treasury. Many rich people threw in large amounts.
It could have been sold for more than a year’s wages and the money given to the poor.” And they rebuked her harshly.
They were delighted to hear this and promised to give him money. So he watched for an opportunity to hand him over.
Then some soldiers asked him, “And what should we do?” He replied, “Don’t extort money and don’t accuse people falsely—be content with your pay.”
“Two people owed money to a certain moneylender. One owed him five hundred denarii, and the other fifty.
Neither of them had the money to pay him back, so he forgave the debts of both. Now which of them will love him more?”
He told them: “Take nothing for the journey—no staff, no bag, no bread, no money, no extra shirt.
“Suppose one of you wants to build a tower. Won’t you first sit down and estimate the cost to see if you have enough money to complete it?
“No one can serve two masters. Either you will hate the one and love the other, or you will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve both God and money.”
The Pharisees, who loved money, heard all this and were sneering at Jesus.
So he called ten of his servants and gave them ten minas. ‘Put this money to work,’ he said, ‘until I come back.’
“He was made king, however, and returned home. Then he sent for the servants to whom he had given the money, in order to find out what they had gained with it.
Why then didn’t you put my money on deposit, so that when I came back, I could have collected it with interest?’
They were delighted and agreed to give him money.
In the temple courts he found people selling cattle, sheep and doves, and others sitting at tables exchanging money.
So he made a whip out of cords, and drove all from the temple courts, both sheep and cattle; he scattered the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables.
“Why wasn’t this perfume sold and the money given to the poor? It was worth a year’s wages.”
He did not say this because he cared about the poor but because he was a thief; as keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it.
Since Judas had charge of the money, some thought Jesus was telling him to buy what was needed for the festival, or to give something to the poor.
When he saw Peter and John about to enter, he asked them for money.
that there were no needy persons among them. For from time to time those who owned land or houses sold them, brought the money from the sales
sold a field he owned and brought the money and put it at the apostles’ feet.
With his wife’s full knowledge he kept back part of the money for himself, but brought the rest and put it at the apostles’ feet.
Then Peter said, “Ananias, how is it that Satan has so filled your heart that you have lied to the Holy Spirit and have kept for yourself some of the money you received for the land?
Didn’t it belong to you before it was sold? And after it was sold, wasn’t the money at your disposal? What made you think of doing such a thing? You have not lied just to human beings but to God.”
Their bodies were brought back to Shechem and placed in the tomb that Abraham had bought from the sons of Hamor at Shechem for a certain sum of money.
When Simon saw that the Spirit was given at the laying on of the apostles’ hands, he offered them money
Peter answered: “May your money perish with you, because you thought you could buy the gift of God with money!
[ Paul and Silas in Prison ] Once when we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a female slave who had a spirit by which she predicted the future. She earned a great deal of money for her owners by fortune-telling.
When her owners realized that their hope of making money was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to face the authorities.
Then the commander said, “I had to pay a lot of money for my citizenship.” “But I was born a citizen,” Paul replied.
On the first day of every week, each one of you should set aside a sum of money in keeping with your income, saving it up, so that when I come no collections will have to be made.
not given to drunkenness, not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money.
Those who have believing masters should not show them disrespect just because they are fellow believers. Instead, they should serve them even better because their masters are dear to them as fellow believers and are devoted to the welfare of their slaves. [ False Teachers and the Love of Money ] These are the things you are to teach and insist on.
For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil. Some people, eager for money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs.
People will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy,
Keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have, because God has said, “Never will I leave you; never will I forsake you.”
[ Boasting About Tomorrow ] Now listen, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go to this or that city, spend a year there, carry on business and make money.”

Hebrews 13:5 ESV / 725 helpful votes	

Keep your life free from love of money, and be content with what you have, for he has said, “I will never leave you nor forsake you.”

1 Timothy 6:10 ESV / 546 helpful votes	

For the love of money is a root of all kinds of evils. It is through this craving that some have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many pangs.

Matthew 6:24 ESV / 470 helpful votes	

“No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.

Ecclesiastes 5:10 ESV / 355 helpful votes	

He who loves money will not be satisfied with money, nor he who loves wealth with his income; this also is vanity.

Matthew 6:19-21 ESV / 333 helpful votes	

“Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also.

Luke 12:33-34 ESV / 297 helpful votes	

Sell your possessions, and give to the needy. Provide yourselves with moneybags that do not grow old, with a treasure in the heavens that does not fail, where no thief approaches and no moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

1 Timothy 6:17-19 ESV / 278 helpful votes	

As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty, nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. They are to do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share, thus storing up treasure for themselves as a good foundation for the future, so that they may take hold of that which is truly life.

Matthew 6:31-33 ESV / 257 helpful votes	

Therefore do not be anxious, saying, ‘What shall we eat?’ or ‘What shall we drink?’ or ‘What shall we wear?’ For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you.

Acts 4:32-35 ESV / 246 helpful votes	

Now the full number of those who believed were of one heart and soul, and no one said that any of the things that belonged to him was his own, but they had everything in common. And with great power the apostles were giving their testimony to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. There was not a needy person among them, for as many as were owners of lands or houses sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold and laid it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to each as any had need.

Proverbs 13:11 ESV / 237 helpful votes	

Wealth gained hastily will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it.

Proverbs 22:7 ESV / 229 helpful votes	

The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is the slave of the lender.

Acts 2:44-45 ESV / 219 helpful votes	

And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all, as any had need.

1 Timothy 5:8 ESV / 215 helpful votes	

But if anyone does not provide for his relatives, and especially for members of his household, he has denied the faith and is worse than an unbeliever.

Proverbs 13:22 ESV / 201 helpful votes	

A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, but the sinner's wealth is laid up for the righteous.

Luke 16:11 ESV / 185 helpful votes	

If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches?

Proverbs 30:8-9 ESV / 174 helpful votes	

Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me, lest I be full and deny you and say, “Who is the Lord?” or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God.

Ecclesiastes 5:18-20 ESV / 163 helpful votes	

Behold, what I have seen to be good and fitting is to eat and drink and find enjoyment in all the toil with which one toils under the sun the few days of his life that God has given him, for this is his lot. Everyone also to whom God has given wealth and possessions and power to enjoy them, and to accept his lot and rejoice in his toil—this is the gift of God. For he will not much remember the days of his life because God keeps him occupied with joy in his heart.

Proverbs 22:1 ESV / 162 helpful votes	

A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold.

Matthew 25:14-30 ESV / 116 helpful votes	

“For it will be like a man going on a journey, who called his servants and entrusted to them his property. To one he gave five talents, to another two, to another one, to each according to his ability. Then he went away. He who had received the five talents went at once and traded with them, and he made five talents more. So also he who had the two talents made two talents more. But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money. ...

Acts 20:35 ESV / 115 helpful votes	

In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, ‘It is more blessed to give than to receive.’”

Malachi 3:10 ESV / 114 helpful votes	

Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need.

1 John 2:15-17 ESV / 104 helpful votes	

Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world—the desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes and pride in possessions—is not from the Father but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever.

Philippians 4:11-13 ESV / 104 helpful votes	

Not that I am speaking of being in need, for I have learned in whatever situation I am to be content. I know how to be brought low, and I know how to abound. In any and every circumstance, I have learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger, abundance and need. I can do all things through him who strengthens me.

Luke 12:15 ESV / 104 helpful votes	

And he said to them, “Take care, and be on your guard against all covetousness, for one's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.”

1 John 3:16-18 ESV / 98 helpful votes	

By this we know love, that he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? Little children, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth.

James 2:14-17 ESV / 94 helpful votes	

What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, “Go in peace, be warmed and filled,” without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead.

Luke 21:1-4 ESV / 91 helpful votes	

Jesus looked up and saw the rich putting their gifts into the offering box, and he saw a poor widow put in two small copper coins. And he said, “Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has put in more than all of them. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty put in all she had to live on.”

Acts 8:20 ESV / 87 helpful votes	

But Peter said to him, “May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money!

Exodus 22:25 ESV / 83 helpful votes	

“If you lend money to any of my people with you who is poor, you shall not be like a moneylender to him, and you shall not exact interest from him.

2 Timothy 3:1-5 ESV / 79 helpful votes	

But understand this, that in the last days there will come times of difficulty. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not loving good, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power. Avoid such people.

Philippians 2:3-4 ESV / 71 helpful votes	

Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.

Song of Solomon 8:6-7 ESV / 68 helpful votes	

Set me as a seal upon your heart, as a seal upon your arm, for love is strong as death, jealousy is fierce as the grave. Its flashes are flashes of fire, the very flame of the Lord. Many waters cannot quench love, neither can floods drown it. If a man offered for love all the wealth of his house, he would be utterly despised.

Ecclesiastes 10:19 ESV / 66 helpful votes	

Bread is made for laughter, and wine gladdens life, and money answers everything.

Luke 14:28 ESV / 65 helpful votes	

For which of you, desiring to build a tower, does not first sit down and count the cost, whether he has enough to complete it?

Ezekiel 28:4 ESV / 58 helpful votes	

By your wisdom and your understanding you have made wealth for yourself, and have gathered gold and silver into your treasuries;

Luke 12:23-24 ESV / 55 helpful votes	

For life is more than food, and the body more than clothing. Consider the ravens: they neither sow nor reap, they have neither storehouse nor barn, and yet God feeds them. Of how much more value are you than the birds!

Proverbs 21:20 ESV / 54 helpful votes	

Precious treasure and oil are in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it.

Proverbs 22:26-27 ESV / 52 helpful votes	

Be not one of those who give pledges, who put up security for debts. If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you?

Isaiah 55:1 ESV / 49 helpful votes	

“Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters; and he who has no money, come, buy and eat! Come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.

Isaiah 55:2 ESV / 48 helpful votes	

Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which does not satisfy? Listen diligently to me, and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food.

Jeremiah 29:11 ESV / 46 helpful votes	

For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans for welfare and not for evil, to give you a future and a hope.

Matthew 19:24 ESV / 45 helpful votes	

Again I tell you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God.”

Luke 19:23 ESV / 44 helpful votes	

Why then did you not put my money in the bank, and at my coming I might have collected it with interest?’

Luke 16:13 ESV / 41 helpful votes	

No servant can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money.”

Proverbs 23:4-5 ESV / 38 helpful votes	

Do not toil to acquire wealth; be discerning enough to desist. When your eyes light on it, it is gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven.

Isaiah 65:11-13 ESV / 37 helpful votes	

But you who forsake the Lord, who forget my holy mountain, who set a table for Fortune and fill cups of mixed wine for Destiny, I will destine you to the sword, and all of you shall bow down to the slaughter, because, when I called, you did not answer; when I spoke, you did not listen, but you did what was evil in my eyes and chose what I did not delight in.” Therefore thus says the Lord God: “Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry; behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty; behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be put to shame;

Psalm 15:5 ESV / 36 helpful votes	

Who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved.

Deuteronomy 8:17-18 ESV / 35 helpful votes	

Beware lest you say in your heart, ‘My power and the might of my hand have gotten me this wealth.’ You shall remember the Lord your God, for it is he who gives you power to get wealth, that he may confirm his covenant that he swore to your fathers, as it is this day.

Job 28:15 ESV / 33 helpful votes	

It cannot be bought for gold, and silver cannot be weighed as its price.

Isaiah 52:3 ESV / 30 helpful votes	

For thus says the Lord: “You were sold for nothing, and you shall be redeemed without money.”

Acts 20:33 ESV / 28 helpful votes	

I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel.

Matthew 25:18 ESV / 28 helpful votes	

But he who had received the one talent went and dug in the ground and hid his master's money.

Luke 16:19-31 ESV / 27 helpful votes	

“There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day. And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table. Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus at his side. ...

Luke 16:9-12 ESV / 25 helpful votes	

And I tell you, make friends for yourselves by means of unrighteous wealth, so that when it fails they may receive you into the eternal dwellings. “One who is faithful in a very little is also faithful in much, and one who is dishonest in a very little is also dishonest in much. If then you have not been faithful in the unrighteous wealth, who will entrust to you the true riches? And if you have not been faithful in that which is another's, who will give you that which is your own?

Matthew 6:28 ESV / 24 helpful votes	

And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow: they neither toil nor spin,

Ecclesiastes 11:1 ESV / 24 helpful votes	

Cast your bread upon the waters, for you will find it after many days.

Proverbs 10:22 ESV / 24 helpful votes	

The blessing of the Lord makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it.

Acts 3:6 ESV / 23 helpful votes	

But Peter said, “I have no silver and gold, but what I do have I give to you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk!”

Mark 12:41-44 ESV / 23 helpful votes	

And he sat down opposite the treasury and watched the people putting money into the offering box. Many rich people put in large sums. And a poor widow came and put in two small copper coins, which make a penny. And he called his disciples to him and said to them, “Truly, I say to you, this poor widow has put in more than all those who are contributing to the offering box. For they all contributed out of their abundance, but she out of her poverty has put in everything she had, all she had to live on.”

Ezekiel 7:19 ESV / 23 helpful votes	

They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are not able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. They cannot satisfy their hunger or fill their stomachs with it. For it was the stumbling block of their iniquity.

Proverbs 11:4 ESV / 21 helpful votes	

Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.

Mark 6:8 ESV / 20 helpful votes	

He charged them to take nothing for their journey except a staff—no bread, no bag, no money in their belts—

Matthew 22:21 ESV / 20 helpful votes	

They said, “Caesar's.” Then he said to them, “Therefore render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's.”

Matthew 19:21 ESV / 20 helpful votes	

Jesus said to him, “If you would be perfect, go, sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven; and come, follow me.”

Lamentations 5:4 ESV / 20 helpful votes	

We must pay for the water we drink; the wood we get must be bought.

Ecclesiastes 10:18-19 ESV / 20 helpful votes	

Through sloth the roof sinks in, and through indolence the house leaks. Bread is made for laughter, and wine gladdens life, and money answers everything.

2 Kings 12:16 ESV / 20 helpful votes	

The money from the guilt offerings and the money from the sin offerings was not brought into the house of the Lord; it belonged to the priests.

2 Kings 12:4 ESV / 20 helpful votes	

Jehoash said to the priests, “All the money of the holy things that is brought into the house of the Lord, the money for which each man is assessed—the money from the assessment of persons—and the money that a man's heart prompts him to bring into the house of the Lord,

Mark 14:11 ESV / 19 helpful votes	

And when they heard it, they were glad and promised to give him money. And he sought an opportunity to betray him.

Ecclesiastes 7:12 ESV / 19 helpful votes	

For the protection of wisdom is like the protection of money, and the advantage of knowledge is that wisdom preserves the life of him who has it.

Genesis 47:14-18 ESV / 19 helpful votes	

And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, in exchange for the grain that they bought. And Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house. And when the money was all spent in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, “Give us food. Why should we die before your eyes? For our money is gone.” And Joseph answered, “Give your livestock, and I will give you food in exchange for your livestock, if your money is gone.” So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them food in exchange for the horses, the flocks, the herds, and the donkeys. He supplied them with food in exchange for all their livestock that year. And when that year was ended, they came to him the following year and said to him, “We will not hide from my lord that our money is all spent. The herds of livestock are my lord's. There is nothing left in the sight of my lord but our bodies and our land.

Luke 19:15 ESV / 18 helpful votes	

When he returned, having received the kingdom, he ordered these servants to whom he had given the money to be called to him, that he might know what they had gained by doing business.

Luke 9:3 ESV / 18 helpful votes	

And he said to them, “Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money; and do not have two tunics.

Matthew 27:3 ESV / 18 helpful votes	

Then when Judas, his betrayer, saw that Jesus was condemned, he changed his mind and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders,

Micah 3:11 ESV / 18 helpful votes	

Its heads give judgment for a bribe; its priests teach for a price; its prophets practice divination for money; yet they lean on the Lord and say, “Is not the Lord in the midst of us? No disaster shall come upon us.”

Jeremiah 32:10 ESV / 18 helpful votes	

I signed the deed, sealed it, got witnesses, and weighed the money on scales.

Proverbs 13:7 ESV / 17 helpful votes	

One pretends to be rich, yet has nothing; another pretends to be poor, yet has great wealth.

Genesis 13:2 ESV / 17 helpful votes	

Now Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold.

1 Timothy 2:9 ESV / 16 helpful votes	

Likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire,

Amos 8:5 ESV / 16 helpful votes	

Saying, “When will the new moon be over, that we may sell grain? And the Sabbath, that we may offer wheat for sale, that we may make the ephah small and the shekel great and deal deceitfully with false balances,

Isaiah 46:6 ESV / 16 helpful votes	

Those who lavish gold from the purse, and weigh out silver in the scales, hire a goldsmith, and he makes it into a god; then they fall down and worship!

Isaiah 13:17 ESV / 16 helpful votes	

Behold, I am stirring up the Medes against them, who have no regard for silver and do not delight in gold.

2 Kings 12:7-16 ESV / 16 helpful votes	

Therefore King Jehoash summoned Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and said to them, “Why are you not repairing the house? Now therefore take no more money from your donors, but hand it over for the repair of the house.” So the priests agreed that they should take no more money from the people, and that they should not repair the house. Then Jehoiada the priest took a chest and bored a hole in the lid of it and set it beside the altar on the right side as one entered the house of the Lord. And the priests who guarded the threshold put in it all the money that was brought into the house of the Lord. And whenever they saw that there was much money in the chest, the king's secretary and the high priest came up and they bagged and counted the money that was found in the house of the Lord. Then they would give the money that was weighed out into the hands of the workmen who had the oversight of the house of the Lord. And they paid it out to the carpenters and the builders who worked on the house of the Lord, ...

Nehemiah 5:10 ESV / 15 helpful votes	

Moreover, I and my brothers and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us abandon this exacting of interest.

Genesis 23:9 ESV / 15 helpful votes	

That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he owns; it is at the end of his field. For the full price let him give it to me in your presence as property for a burying place.”

1 Timothy 6:9 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction.

Matthew 10:9 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

Acquire no gold nor silver nor copper for your belts,

Jeremiah 32:44 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

Fields shall be bought for money, and deeds shall be signed and sealed and witnessed, in the land of Benjamin, in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, in the cities of the hill country, in the cities of the Shephelah, and in the cities of the Negeb; for I will restore their fortunes, declares the Lord.”

Isaiah 43:24 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

You have not bought me sweet cane with money, or satisfied me with the fat of your sacrifices. But you have burdened me with your sins; you have wearied me with your iniquities.

Job 31:39 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

If I have eaten its yield without payment and made its owners breathe their last,

2 Chronicles 34:9 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

They came to Hilkiah the high priest and gave him the money that had been brought into the house of God, which the Levites, the keepers of the threshold, had collected from Manasseh and Ephraim and from all the remnant of Israel and from all Judah and Benjamin and from the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

2 Chronicles 24:14 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

And when they had finished, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada, and with it were made utensils for the house of the Lord, both for the service and for the burnt offerings, and dishes for incense and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt offerings in the house of the Lord regularly all the days of Jehoiada.

2 Chronicles 24:11 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

And whenever the chest was brought to the king's officers by the Levites, when they saw that there was much money in it, the king's secretary and the officer of the chief priest would come and empty the chest and take it and return it to its place. Thus they did day after day, and collected money in abundance.

2 Chronicles 24:5 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

And he gathered the priests and the Levites and said to them, “Go out to the cities of Judah and gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that you act quickly.” But the Levites did not act quickly.

2 Kings 22:9 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

And Shaphan the secretary came to the king, and reported to the king, “Your servants have emptied out the money that was found in the house and have delivered it into the hand of the workmen who have the oversight of the house of the Lord.”

Leviticus 25:37 ESV / 14 helpful votes	

You shall not lend him your money at interest, nor give him your food for profit.

1 Peter 1:18 ESV / 13 helpful votes	

Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold,

Matthew 2:11 ESV / 13 helpful votes	

And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshiped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh.

Isaiah 60:9 ESV / 12 helpful votes	

For the coastlands shall hope for me, the ships of Tarshish first, to bring your children from afar, their silver and gold with them, for the name of the Lord your God, and for the Holy One of Israel, because he has made you beautiful.

1 Corinthians 9:3-14 ESV / 8 helpful votes	

This is my defense to those who would examine me. Do we not have the right to eat and drink? Do we not have the right to take along a believing wife, as do the other apostles and the brothers of the Lord and Cephas? Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working for a living? Who serves as a soldier at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard without eating any of its fruit? Or who tends a flock without getting some of the milk? ...
